# InSURE
Data security and insurance fraud are significant challenges in the health insurance industry, leading to breaches of patient information and financial losses. Insurance providers store vast amounts of medical data, making them vulnerable to leaks and compromising patient trust. Fraudulent claims further strain resources and increase premiums, costing the healthcare industry billions of dollars annually. InSURE is a zkApp designed to address these challenges by establishing a trustless system between patient and provider. Our proposal allows the patient to confirm their medical conditions fit an insurance provider’s criteria without revealing the conditions themselves. 
  In today’s digital world, data security plays a pivotal role in safeguarding sensitive information. As our reliance on technology continues to increase, so too does our need for secure and resilient data systems. Healthcare is a particularly notable example of where this data security is so crucial. The transfer of more and more patient data to a digital format has opened the door for significant data leaks that seriously threaten the confidentiality underpinning our health service. In 2022 alone, 72 breaches of healthcare-related data each affected over 100,000 patients, with the 11 largest of these collectively impacting over 21 million people1. Specifically, health insurance providers present a significant area of vulnerability for data leaks due to the vast amounts of personal and medical information that they store. Applying for health insurance requires a user to hand over extensive medical records, including diagnoses, clinical findings, test results, treatments received, and hospital discharge summaries. The combination of this significant volume of data requested by insurance providers with the increasing incidence of information leaks is undermining patient trust in the healthcare system. 
  Another significant challenge surrounding the health insurance industry is insurance fraud. With patients filling out their own medical information as part of the health insurance application, there lies the possibility for deceit, in order to bring down their personal premiums. This reflects a small proportion of insurance users who are trying to game and undermine the system. This in turn requires additional time and unnecessary resources on the health insurers behalf that will ultimately be reflected in higher premiums for all. To quantify the scale of this problem, The Global Healthcare Anti-Fraud Network has reported that the annual cost of health insurance fraud amounts to $260bn, or 6% of global healthcare spending.2 This is simply unacceptable given the possibilities enabled by current technologies.
